I would like to thank Prof. Madicken Munk, who introduced me into
the nuclear community as a newly minted graduate student and who inspires
constantly with her intelligence and warmth. Relatedly, I would like to thank
Prof. Kathryn Huff, who has been a mentor and advisor to me at every step of my
collegiate education and who guided me in the home stretch of this work.

I would like to thank my fellow graduate students and the members of
\gls{arfc} especially Amanda Bachmann, Sam Dotson, Nataly Panczyk, Olek Yardas,
Zo\"{e} Richter, Luke Seifert, Gwendolyn Chee, Sun Myung Park, Rhys MacMillian,
and Ceser Zambrano.

Throughout the years, I learned much from my group mates, advisors, and
mentors, but I would be remiss to not acknowledge that I went to the school of
open source and learned much from countless developers who work openly to
better science. In particular the \cyclus community, especially Prof. Paul P.H.
Wilson, Jin Whan Bae, and Dr. Eva Davidson.

I owe many thanks to my parents, brother, grandparents, family, partner, and
friends who have reminded me--sometimes to my chagrin--that life keeps going
outside the walls of my office. To my cousin Matthew, I can not wait to explain
this part of my life to you someday when we are reunited because I know you are
going to have questions.

This research is being performed using funding received from the DOE Office of
Nuclear Energy's Nuclear Energy University Program (Project 23-29656
DE-NE0009390) 'Illuminating Emerging Supply Chain and Waste Management
Challenges'.

This research was supported in part by an appointment to the Oak Ridge National
Laboratory Research Student Internships Program, sponsored by the U.S.
Department of Energy and administered by the Oak Ridge Institute for Science
and Education.